We,
caught up with Rania Chemal Sedin,
wonderful journalist, researcher
and co-host of the delete your account
podcast who spoke to us from
from Lebanon yesterday. We recorded this
at a time when when she was able to join
us. So, let's go to that interview and
then we'll we'll come back and have your
analysis and John's analysis.
I'm Ali Abunimah here with my colleague
Nora Barrow Friedman. You're watching
and listening to the Electronic Intifada
live stream. Since the United States and
Israel launched their war of aggression
aiming to topple the government of Iran
on February 28th, Lebanon has once again
once again become a major frontline of
confrontation.
On March 2nd, the resistance group
Hezbollah launched rockets and drones
against Israeli military targets. This
followed the US-Israeli murder of Iran's
leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and more
than 10,000 Israeli violations of the
so-called ceasefire between Israel and
Lebanon signed in November 2024. Along
with the continued Israeli occupation of
Lebanese territory in violation of that
agreement, Israel has launched a bombing
campaign across Lebanon's south and
east, particularly in the southern
suburb of Beirut, striking homes and
infrastructure in densely populated
neighborhoods.
Lebanese authorities report that almost
600 people have been killed and more
than 1,400 wounded since the escalation
began while over 750,000
people are displaced, mostly from the
south as families flee Israeli
bombardment.
Aid agencies warn that hospitals are
overwhelmed and the country faces a
deepening humanitarian crisis as
hundreds of thousands seek shelter in
schools, vehicles and improvised camps.
In Nabi Sheet in the eastern Bekaa
Valley on the night of March 6th to 7th,
Israeli helicopters inserted a commando
unit that attempted to dig up a grave in
a cemetery searching for the remains of
an Israeli military pilot who has been
missing for decades. The infiltration
was discovered and Hezbollah fighters
and local residents confronted the
invaders. Israeli warplanes launched
dozens of air strikes to cover the
withdrawal of the troops. The air
strikes and fighting killed at least 41
people and wounded around 40 in Nabi
Sheet and the Israeli forces withdrew.
Hezbollah is responding to Israel's
attacks on Lebanon with sustained
rocket, missile, and drone fire against
Israeli military positions and
settlements. Israel has admitted it is
having difficulty intercepting the
group's drones. We'll be hearing more
about the military situation from our
colleague John Elmer later in the
program.
Politically, the escalation has
intensified divisions inside Lebanon.
The western-backed government has
attempted to outlaw Hezbollah, accusing
it of drawing the country into a wider
war. The movement and its supporters
insist Israel's repeated violations of
Lebanese sovereignty make armed
resistance unavoidable. The only
question, they say, is whether Israel
should be allowed to choose the moment
of a major escalation or whether the
resistance should take the initiative.
Joining us now from Lebanon is Rukaiya
Shams Eddin. She is a southern Lebanese
researcher and reporter and co-host of
the Delitcher Account podcast. She
herself has been forced forcibly
displaced from the Dahieh, Beirut's
southern suburb, and she joins us now
from Beirut. Rukaiya, welcome to the
Electronic Intifada livestream.
Thank you so much for having me on
again. I'm honored to be here with
y'all.
So good to have you again, Rukaiya.
Thanks, Rukaiya. As I just said, you are
displaced.
Describe for what you have experienced
since the March 2nd escalation and what
the situation is right now for people in
Beirut, especially those from the
Dahiyeh and the south of the country.
So, since March 2nd, this is the latest
Israeli aggression, an extension of the
ongoing over 16-month aggression against
Lebanon. The The very fabric of daily
life in Beirut, not just in Dahiyeh, but
in the southern regions and in the Bekaa
Valley has been violently targeted by
the US and Israel. And I want to make
that clear. This isn't just Israel
because the US is more or less leading
the charge here, but families have been
This is a forcible displacement. We are
being ethnically cleansed. No one is
heating Israeli warnings. They are
telling us, "We are going to bomb your
neighborhoods. We're going to bomb the
houses, the residential buildings." And
if you've ever been to Dahiyeh, if
you've ever seen photos of Dahiyeh, the
the buildings are nestled very close to
one another. So, if there is a so-called
targeted bombing, I I don't even like
describing it that way. They it will
knock out other buildings, other stores.
People have been forced to leave behind
every possession they have.
But at the same time, I've witnessed a
lot of
Our community is very resilient. We've
been forced to be resilient, but
displacement has become a daily
condition for over 700,000 people. And
those are just the people that have
registered as being forcibly displaced.
Um
I think that
what's happening and and what I've seen
There are people sleeping in front of
the the ocean. There are people sleeping
on top of buildings outside of Dahiyeh
and Shiite.
But again,
we understand that we need to be
resilient, and this resilience is
inseparable from the resistance. And and
we understand that we're we're going to
to remain as strong as possible
in order to continue this.
So, I I I mean the the one positive that
I've seen out of all of this is just how
strong our community has been despite
what we've been forced to endure. And
today, as we as we're speaking Israel
has announced that they will bomb
Dahiyeh and and multiple places in
surrounding areas.
Places that we walk every single day.
Places that we we have raised our
families every single day. So, this is
what we're forced to endure and we're
forced to endure it in the shadows of,
as you said, a complicit government with
which has abandoned us.
Well, we'll talk more about the the
government and the politics in Lebanon
um in a bit, Ruqaiya, but
right now, I want to ask you about
how people from the south and from the
southern suburb of Beirut how are they
being treated in different parts of the
country? Are people welcoming them? Are
people making efforts to
provide refuge, shelter, food, and so on
for this enormous number of displaced
people? It's something like
almost a quarter of Lebanon's
population. Right. And while there have
there have been people who have been
offering food and shelter and that
because
people need to understand these are not
just individual. Whenever there was the
first announcement to hit Dahiyeh, I was
actually on the road. All of a sudden,
we
the in the taxi, everyone was wondering
why the traffic had stopped. And it was
because Abi Khay had announced uh that
Israel would they everyone needs to
leave Dahiyeh now because they're going
to hit Dahiyeh. And I want people to
picture that. You No no warning really
and then being told everything you have,
you're going to lose it. Everything you
Wherever you're coming from, you need to
leave. People are walking on foot from
different villages in South Lebanon,
walking on foot from Dahi, and while
Lebanon is small, the areas are massive.
So, you were walking for hours. People
abandoned their vehicles out of fear of
what was coming. So,
there have been people opening their
homes and offering food and and shelter
and what have you, but at the same time,
there is a large portion of this country
who are being discriminatory against
those from South Lebanon. They will
discriminate against you based on your
accent, based on the way that some women
wear their hijab because they wear it a
certain way in the southern villages.
So, and then they're charging 6 months
uh rent and a charge like as if they're
a hotel. You can live here, but I need 6
months. I need you to pay for management
services, whatever that is, cleaning
services, or they're refusing to let you
stay at all because of where you're
from. They say out of fear that Israel
will talk, you know, target the
buildings, but it is it is a form of
discrimination that this community has
faced for decades. It did not begin now.
Rokayya, uh in the introduction,
uh Ali talked a little bit about the
Israeli attack in the town of Nabi Sheet
in the eastern Bekaa Valley. You went
there yourself just a few days ago. You
posted a brief video on social media.
Let's watch it and then uh tell us about
what you saw in the town and what what
people told you about the Israeli
invasion and attack. Let's go to that
video.
I'm in the village of Nabi Sheet
Lebanon
reporting from
the uh
Israeli attack.
Tell us
what what we saw just there. Um and uh
and these images that you sent us are
also from the village. Um
tell us about the attack.
So, the attack occurred a few days ago,
I would say I if I remember correctly
because all the days are running
together. It was around the 7th or 8th
of of March. There was an overnight
incursion into the village of Nebi Sheet
nearby the village of Nebi Sheet. And
the incursion was stopped. Um
a full expansion into the village was
sought by not only Hezbollah, but
locals, residents. Um the town once you
go into the town, the heart of the town,
the mayor's house was completely bombed.
The bombing was so intense. There footed
There's images that I I took of the
vehicles. They were actually up into the
buildings, into the the height of the
buildings. What you're seeing right now.
That That's like four four levels and it
would the vehicles were all the way up
top. The crater was so massive. It
reminded me of the attacks that happened
in Haret Hreik in Dahieh. The one that
killed uh Sayed Hassan Nasrallah. That
was something that I was reminded of.
Um whenever the Israelis went in to
allegedly get the the remains of the uh
pilot uh His name is Ron Arad. I don't I
frankly don't care what his name is.
They went in and the people that were
there around the cemetery,
they noticed that there was digging.
Something was happening. And one story I
want to tell people that I I'm going to
try and cover in depth later is that a
woman with her family, um her children,
I I believe her oldest son was in his
20s, saw what was happening and she
pulled out her gun. I I don't know what
type of gun, but she had a gun. And she
They approached her house where her
children were and she shot at them. She
shot um
They I was told that at least two of
them were shot by her. I don't know what
happened to them, but they ended up
killing her and killing all of her
children.
And that was near the cemetery that they
were digging. And the cemetery belongs
to the Shukor family. And one of the
members of the Shukor family was
actually abducted. He's one of the
prisoners being held and tortured by
Israel. Currently, over 20 Lebanese
citizens are being held in captivity and
our government has done and said nothing
about them. But, whenever I went into
the village, this is in the eastern part
of Lebanon. It is not South Lebanon. The
the the area of Baalbek, the people
there are known to be incredibly fierce,
strong, and armed. Women and men and
even children know how to defend their
community in the the eastern area of
Lebanon. It is very beautiful, but you
everywhere I went in the village, there
was signs of not just the attack that
happened a few days ago, but attacks
that happened before. At one of the
sites where they killed 13 people, they
had actually killed people nearby
before, including children. The youngest
uh person that they killed in the recent
incursion and attack on Nabi Sheet was
only 2 years old. I I watched as his
uh
as the casket went by. It was incredibly
moving because of just how loved all of
these people were. It's a very
tight-knit community. Everyone knew
everyone. Um I got I was honored to be
able to speak and sit with a lot of the
martyrs' families. One of them was a
very old woman. She told me how
her son was engaged for about 5 months
and they killed him before or his
wedding was in 5 months and they killed
him before he was supposed to get
married. Um I I can this also involved
the Lebanese army because before Israel
the Israelis went into the village,
uh there was signs that something was
happening. They were coming in This is
how disturbing the situation is. They
were coming in wearing Lebanese army
uniforms and an ambulance made to look
like a Lebanese uh health authority
ambulance. So, this was pre-planned. And
then, a few days ago, they tried again
to go into Nabi Sheet and were prevented
from doing so. So, this was a a
collaborative effort by Hezbollah, the
locals that were fighting and also the
army helped.
So, Rima, you're saying the Israelis
tried to come in disguised as medics?
They tried to come in disguised as
members of Lebanese army and yes, they
used an ambulance to try and go in as
well. Which of course is
a war crime under international law.
It's it's a war crime to impersonate
um
medical personnel. I believe it's even a
war crime to wear the uniforms of
another army. That's the crime of
perfidy.
Um
but it's also
all all the time. Yeah, I was going to
say that we saw this tactic in Gaza at
the the most intense parts of the
ongoing genocide. But of course this is
a
you know, an army that has no red lines,
has no morals, respects no law.
What some of
Talk about just you know, I've been it's
been a few years but I've been to
Eastern Lebanon and it is absolutely
beautiful. I've also been to the south
and I've visited many of the villages
there.
Um and these are beautiful places.
Talk about what you saw between you
know, traveling to the Bekaa Valley and
when you were in Nabatieh, how
widespread We saw the pictures were were
pretty uh
intense but how widespread is the
bombing? How how present are the Israeli
attacks on Lebanon right now?
So, in the eastern part of the Bekaa
Valley, they're not just bombing
different villages. They're also um
picking off members of the resistance or
anyone associated Some of them aren't
even part of Hezbollah using drones
strikes. This is happening in the Bekaa
Valley. They're bombing the mountains.
They're bombing the villages. They're
bombing the roads. They're bombing roads
that are that if you you've been there
the area of Eastern Lebanon, like South
Lebanon, they're the way that they're
built is that if you cut off one road,
you can cut off all access to the entire
village, which is something they intend
to do. They Whenever they hit Nabi
Sheet, they also hit an area where the
water and and the power was,
intentionally trying to make it so this
community, if the Israelis went in and
stayed, they're going to be starved.
They're going to be prevented from
having any access to the outside world
because again, this is a very tiny
village without They already have a
rough time getting in and out of of
these places. And I want to briefly talk
about South Lebanon.
Um They My village, Autobahnium, I've
written for Electronic Intifada about
Autobahnium before. They've hit our
village at least five times in the last
week and a half. They killed four
members of my extended family in Zawtar
Sharqiyeh, which is outside of
Autobahnium. They had just built their
house. I I believe they just newly built
a house there, and they targeted them
while they were having um either suhoor
or iftar. It happened at night, and they
killed everyone. Um the
two children, the mother, and the
father. So, this is what we're dealing
with. And then we're not the only family
that has suffered this.
In Eastern Lebanon, they've taken out
entire families, including today. They
killed at least seven people. Um they're
killing paramedics. They're doing double
tap strikes. They are trying to make it
so not only are they going to ethnically
cleanse us, but they're putting a price
on being in solidarity with the
resistance. That's also why they're
hitting Dahieh. If people think they're
hitting Hezbollah infrastructure in
Dahieh, you're kidding yourself. They're
doing this in order to extract a price.
They're saying, "If you want to support
Hezbollah, we're going to take
everything from you." But if you And
I've interviewed hundreds of Lebanese
people in and outside of Beirut who tell
me, "If I have to sleep in my car, if I
have to sleep on the road, I'll do it
because there's no other way. We've been
killed for 15, 16 months, and no one
said anything. But as soon as Hezbollah
fired those six or so rockets on the 2nd
of March, the entire world said, "No,
no, no. They they want to extract a
price from us and we're willing to pay
it, no matter what happens." Mhm. Well,
let's talk more about that uh I don't
know if it's the right even to call it a
debate inside Lebanon. It's certainly a
very sharp division. The government of
President Joseph Aoun and Prime Minister
Najib Salam have declared that Hezbollah
is now outlawed and must surrender its
weapons. And in an unprecedented move,
the government is also asking for direct
negotiations with Israel on how to
disarm Hezbollah.
Hezbollah's leadership, including of
course Secretary General Naim Qassem and
its parliamentary leader um Muhammad
Raad, in the last few days have uh
issued very strong statements rejecting
this and insisting on the right to
resist and saying, "You know, if the
army can't or won't defend us, people
have the right to defend their land
against occupation."
This looks like, you know, this division
has has been there in Lebanon, but this
seems like an unprecedented rupture,
almost like a a point of no return.
Talk about what's happening politically,
uh your view of the government's moves,
and give us some more about how people
are reacting. You just talked a bit
about what people are telling you, but
give us more insight into this uh
development.
So, the political maneuvers by the
government, namely Joseph Aoun and Prime
Minister Najib
Like you said, they've declared
Hezbollah illegal and and they want to
openly We've known they're they're
negotiating through what's called the
mechanism under the table with indirect
and sometimes maybe even direct talks.
It's a bit shady there, but um this
reveals that there is a fracture within
the state apparatus and the tensions
inherent in in Lebanon that continue to
exist under the shadow of imperial
design. So there's no ambiguity here.
Hezbollah weapons are not an instrument
of political contestation. They're a
shield. They're the only defense that we
have. That's it. The Lebanese army, they
set up their tents all across the
southern Lebanese villages and what
happened? They pulled out. The
government told them to leave. So what
are we supposed to do? The government's
saying we're not going to protect you.
The Lebanese army is not going to
protect us. So again, the only shield we
have is Hezbollah and Hezbollah is the
tangible expression of our right to
resist occupation and to defend our
people
against a history of foreign aggression
that stretches back before the time of
during the time of Shaban Aman when
Lebanese people were resisting alongside
Palestinians. And and as you mentioned,
Sheikh Naim Qassem and a parliamentary
leader Muhammad Raad have consistently
affirmed that the resistance is a
national duty and a moral imperative,
one that can't be disarmed at you know,
the behest of those who would leave
Lebanon exposed and vulnerable. They're
the Lebanese state is begging to have
this
be over and done with while also not
giving us any guarantees that will be
safe because as we've seen before to
this current situation, they killed over
350 people. I I was making a list of
their names every day. So demand that we
surrender in the midst of a war is to
ask us to abandon the principles of
self-determination that define our
history and then to accept this logic of
submission. And and you
the thing that we have "Hayhat minna
dhilla" is we I would rather die than
face this humiliation. So every missile
Hezbollah launches, every defensive
action that they take is an assertion
that Lebanon is not a colony and that
our people are not subject to anyone,
whether that be the what this Mahmoud
Abbasian state that we have,
um, and that our resistance is rooted in
the consciousness of oppression and the
pursuit of liberation. Sheikh Naim
Qassem said, "That's it. We're not going
to give up our weapons. We're warning
you that we can only tolerate so much."
So, what do they expect us to do? So,
this is a continuation of a struggle
that's both ethical and existential to
us. And so, to disarm under these
conditions would be to erase the memory
of all those who have resisted before us
and to hand our people the inheritance
of subjugation, and we refuse.
Ruqaya, we have just a couple of
minutes, but, you know, you're listening
to you describe the situation in
Lebanon, where you have this division
between resistance and essentially
collaborators.
We see that also in Palestine. You
mentioned Mahmoud Abbas, the head of the
Palestinian Authority, which
collaborates openly with Israel and
considers the resistance to be criminal.
We also see it on a regional level now,
as the United States and Israel are
waging this war of aggression against
Iran and are being backed by,
uh, Arab
states in the region by quite a number.
Put what's happening in Lebanon in the
regional context. How do you see what's
happening
with Iran? Is this now Is this an
inevitable battle or war that that has
been building up for a while, or is it
another episode in this series of
start-stop,
uh, escalations that we've been all
living with for so long? What are your
thoughts on the the war with Iran?
I I think this is part of an ongoing
battle that the resistance has been
preparing for in the long run and what
we're seeing with the attacks on Dubai,
the attacks on Bahrain, Kuwait, a lot of
people on the outside are wondering why
Iran is targeting these areas, but
they're these are vassal states that
have
I had to how do I put this? That have
been taking advantage of the bloodshed
in the region that have been benefiting
and profiting off of the bloodshed in
the region and they've been watching as
our communities are torn apart for not
just in Lebanon, but in Gaza and in
wider Palestine. They've been watching
and they've been benefiting from it
financially. So this, in my opinion, was
inevitable and it's much deserved. The
the Gulf regimes deserve what is
happening to them because they have
refused to be anything less anything
more than at the the behest of the
United States and Iran has basically put
a price on it. They've said, "Okay, you
want to be a vassal state, you want to
hold these US interests, you want to
have these bases, we're going to extract
as much pain from what you are doing
because this is
I I It sounds harsh to a lot of people,
but I
this is much deserved and we've been
waiting to watch Dubai burn after
everything that they've done to us and
and to Sudan, by the way. So I think
that if Iran, in my opinion, they will
come out triumphant. This will put an
end to a lot of the bloodshed that we've
been enduring for
decades.
Mhm.
And just to say, of course, that uh
you know, none of us want to see
uh
people who are uninvolved hurt or
injured in any country.
That's not what we want, but we're
speaking, of course, in terms of the
regional and and geopolitics.
Absolutely. These are colonies. These
are These are people that have um
basically made sure that they will
pocket as much money from what's
happening. And they thought that having
a US base in their country would keep
them safe. And Iran has blasted through
that mythology. Mhm.
Roxane, for for people who
you know, have been uh
not grasping the enormity of uh this
existential,
you know, war. Uh really for um
you know, the Palestinians, for
Lebanese, for Iranians, for
uh you know, for for people who are
resisting
you know, that that not just the tip of
the spear that is that is Israel of of
the Western imperial project, but the US
um which is of course the spear itself.
Um
talk about how
uh important Iran has been
um in terms of supporting the Lebanese
resistance.
Um and and and and what would happen
uh if if the US and Israel were to, you
know, um
uh enact this sort of greater Israel
project across the region and try and um
and and turn Iran into yet another, you
know, Western vassal state. Uh how
important is Iran to Lebanon right now?
It's incredibly important because it's
the final frontier in this battle
against Israel and the United States.
And without, you know, Iran, not only
would the Lebanese resistance,
Hezbollah, Hamas, and Islamic Jihad
even, um but a lot of Palestinian groups
who have benefited from financial,
political support from Iran, they would
it would undermine everything that has
been happening for the for the last
however many decades that Iran has been
supporting the Palestinian people and
the Lebanese people because again in
Lebanon the the Lebanese army is not
even allowed to use the weapons that
they have which are hold to target
Israel. That's actually written in in
the the agreement that our state has
with the lovely Americans. So what do we
have? We have Hezbollah. That's what we
have and the Palestinians have Hamas and
they have the PFLP and they have
numerous other resistance groups that
have been supported by Iran. Iran has
not benefited from supporting the
Palestinians or the Lebanese people.
It's the total opposite. The more that
they supported us, the more pain that
the US has inflicted on them by way of
sanctions and now by way of killing over
1,300 people many of them children. So
if we lose Iran, it will be more
devastating than losing Syria which is
now under the government of former
Al-Qaeda leader
Julani. So if if Iran falls, the region
falls and this is not an exaggeration.
Roqaya
Yeah. Oh, go ahead Ali. Yeah, the the
stakes couldn't be higher and we're so
grateful to you for your reporting and
we
pray for your safety and the safety of
everyone in Lebanon and
we hope you'll come back on and for
people who want to follow your
reporting, what are the best ways for
them to do that?
You can follow me on Twitter.
I'm you can search the r o q c h a m s
on Twitter. I'm also working at the
cradle
and I've been posting live updates here
and there on the situation. So I Twitter
is probably the best place that you can
find me.
And of course delete your account with
Keanu Aliyev.
>> Aliyev.
That's the that's the podcast delete
your account. It's a really great
in-depth discussion not to to missed and
you are keeping incredibly busy and
doing tremendously important reporting
that we are not getting from too many
places right now in Lebanon.
And you're doing it while you're
displaced and suffering all of the same
um
you know, the the same difficulties that
that so many people in Lebanon are
facing and you are still keeping this
up. We're so grateful to you, Rokayya.
Please stay safe as you can and thank
you so much for joining us today.
No, thank you all so much and I can't
wait to come back on. Inshallah, next
time all of our our villages will be
liberated when I come back on.
Exactly. Thank you, Rokayya.
Uh such an intense and um
and incredible report from Rokayya
there. Yeah. Yeah. And just a couple of
quick updates, a few hours after we
recorded that interview with Rokayya
last night, Israel carried out a double
tap tap strike at the Ramlet el-Baida
beach in Beirut where many displaced
people were sleeping in tents. This
video is from The Cradle, which of
course is
the outlet that Rokayya also reports
for.
Witnesses in Ramlet el-Baida say they
were sleeping in their tents when the
roar of the jets woke them. Al Jazeera's
correspondent Heidi Pet reported from
Beirut.
There was one impact and they popped
their heads out of their tents in time
to see the second one, she said. At
least eight people were killed and
another 31 injured, according to
Lebanese authorities. Israeli attacks
also killed several more people in other
parts of Lebanon overnight and those
attacks appear to be intensifying in the
last few hours.
There's also been a potentially
significant move against the US-backed
Lebanese government's moves to try to
use the Lebanese army to forcibly disarm
Hezbollah.
The newspaper Al-Akhbar is reporting
today that there is a strong pushback
from senior officers that has forced the
government to shelve any such plan for
now. At the same time, a number of
officers calling themselves patriotic
officers put out a statement warning
against any
plan to to use the army to confront the
Lebanese public or internal political
forces. In the statement, the officers
say,
"Placing the army in confrontation with
the sons of the nation or assigning it
the task of pursuing those who are
confronting an external attack on the
country constitutes a dangerous
precedent that carries grave risks for
the cohesion of the military institution
and for national stability." So, that's
just some updates since we talked.
>> just in the last, you know, 20 hours
since we talked to Rania.